---
layout: season
title:  "Season 13 (2019-2020)"
theme: Diverse
logo: diverse_logo.png
date:   2020-05-16
---

There are billions of people around the world - none of them with the same fingerprint.
There are approximately 8.7 million species of plants and animals on this world - each
thriving in their own habitat in an interconnected system. When a software engineer is
building a system they may turn to assembly, C++, Java, JavaScript, Perl, Python, Rust,
Erlang, Haskell or one of the countless other programming languages each designed to
solve problems a different way.

If every part in your car was the same, the engine wouldn’t run. When everybody in a
team has the same background and thinks the same way, issues go unnoticed and
creative solutions to problems are harder to find. A system in which individual elements
have variations will allow for more interesting interactions and powerful combinations
than one in which every element is the same.

<iframe class="yt-embed" width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/dmpVghSddGo" title="OGPC 13 - Diverse" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Season Showcase

Unfortunately, this season of OGPC will not end with the traditional Main Event due to COIVD.
Instead, we have a virtual Showcase where teams can show off their work. To participate, teams
should submit two videos of 5 minutes or less (each):

* **Trailer** This video should start with an elevator pitch for your game. Sell it to the
  audience in 90 seconds or less. Then show off how the game works – make sure to show off
  your coolest mechanics and scenes. Unless your entire game can be played in 5 minutes, you
  will need to use cheat codes to skip around or splice together clips of different parts of
  the game.

* **Making Of** This video should focus on how you made the game. Describe what you are most
  proud of and what challenges you encountered. Make sure to focus on any of the areas
  (Programming, Game Design, Art and Assets, Theme and Story, and Management) you think your
  team particularly excelled in. Don’t read off the achievement list, but do make sure to
  share the most impressive things you did while working on them.

Congratulations to every team that submitted a project! It took a lot of determination to
see your project through during the COIVD pandemic. The OGPC judges are working through
the submissions and will be recognizing projects and providing feedback.

## Season Documents

Details on the theme and competition:

* The [competition manual](../assets/files/seasons/13/Competition-Manual-2020.pdf) for the season.
  This has the full theme description as well as rules and guidelines for the competition.
* The [coaching guide](../assets/files/seasons/13/Coaching-Guide-2020.pdf) with helpful tips for
  coaches new and old.
* [Achievements guide](../assets/files/seasons/13/Achievement-Guide-2020.pdf) and the shorter
  [Achievements checklist](../assets/files/seasons/13/Achievement-Checklist-2020.pdf). These
  are specific things judges will be looking for when scoring your project.

## IMPORTANT RULE CHANGES

Due to space constraints we expect to face for the main event, we are changing some policies this year.
These moves are designed to accommodate as many teams as possible on a level playing field. These
policies will be new for Season 13:

* **Main Event registration will open with the season.** You can and should pay and reserve your spot
  at the main event right away. Until a team registers for the main event, they are not guaranteed
  a spot in it.
* **All games must fit on the provided table and be playable by someone standing/sitting in front of
  it.** No room-scale VR, no setting up large structures, no roping off an area or claiming some
  other part of the gym, etc… 
* **Schools/groups bringing three or more teams have a minimum team size of three students.**
