---
layout: season
title:  "Season 14 (2020-2021)"
theme: Resilience
logo: Resilience_Color_Tight.png
date:   2021-05-15
---

We are all constantly challenged with setbacks both small and large. Resilience is overcoming these
challenges and staying focused on our goals. It is bouncing back from failure and recovering when
things go wrong. Resilience and the need to be resilient can be found in all aspects of life. Scientists,
athletes, authors, business people, and political & military leaders all have been quoted as extolling
the virtues of resiliency.

Research and understand what makes a system or person resilient. Can resilience be found without
failure or adversity? How can a person learn to be resilient? Then decide how to express that in your
game.

<iframe class="yt-embed" width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/fBvawRUC9f0" title="OGPC 14 - Resilience" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Season Documents

Details on the theme and competition:

* The [competition manual](../assets/files/seasons/14/Competition-Manual-2021.pdf) for the season.
  This has the full theme description as well as rules and guidelines for the competition.
* The [coaching guide](../assets/files/seasons/14/Coaching-Guide-2021.pdf) with helpful tips for
  coaches new and old.
* [Achievements guide](../assets/files/seasons/14/2021-Achievements.pdf). These
  are specific things judges will be looking for when scoring your project.

## COVID ADJUSTMENTS

Due to the massive uncertainty around what next May will look like, we are making some adjustments
to how OGPC runs for the 2020-2021 season. Below are the highlights, see the 
[Competition Manual](../assets/files/seasons/14/Competition-Manual-2021.pdf) for full details.

### VIRTUAL JUDGING

All judging will place online on May 15th. We are planning to do synchronous judging sessions where
teams interact with judges online to show off their projects and answer questions.

### GAMES MUST BE WEB PLAYABLE

To accommodate online judging, all games must be playable on the web. Teams will have to
provide a link to a webpage where judges (and other teams) can play the game in a web browser.
See the Season 14 Competition Manual for details.

### CONSTRUCT 3 LICENSES AVAILABLE FOR FREE TO TEAMS

Made possible by generous support from [Scirra](https://www.scirra.com/), OGPC will provide
teams with licenses to [Construct 3](https://www.construct.net/) for the duration of OGPC Season 14.

Construct 3 runes entirely in a web browser and works on any platform (PC, Mac, iOS, Android,
ChromeOS). It produces web playable games and supports multiple levels of programming (Visual
block-based programming and text-based JavaScript). For teams that do not have access to their
regular development tools, or whose normal tools do not support developing web-based games,
Construct hopefully provides a clear path for how to get started working online.

Teams do NOT have to use Construct. If your team members have access to tools they are already
familiar with and those tools are capable of making a web playable game, you are welcome to use those.
